WEBVTT
Kind: captions
Language: en
in this tutorial we cover how we measure
the risk for trading
strategies we'll go through what we
consider risk how we track it how to
find out what the risk is for strategies
in the leaderboard and what's
next so what is risk first very
conceptual important Point risk
describes what could happen in the
future so it is a forward-looking
measure unlike draw down which it
describes what did happen in the past
now of course it's true that what did
happen in the past can inform the future
but ultimately what you want to know and
investor wants to know is what could
happen to his money going forward so at
datex we give much more weight to the
measure of risk than we do to draw
down so how do we track
risk well first let's look at the
definition we Define risk in terms of
trading strategies as to what could
happen to your money in the future
future with two potential extremes it
could be that you either lose or you
win and of course risk is always related
to a Target Horizon so for instance
let's say we took a day so how come how
much could we make or lose in one day
well a useful approximation to that is
what you can see at dwin X in foral
strategies going to the
interface checking out the basic charts
and looking at risk so what do we see in
here well we see for each of the trading
days where this strategy has been active
we see the return plotted on a
percentage of equity basis so for
instance in this case this strategy has
had 162 days with a return between 0 and
0.45 and so on and so forth both for
positive and negative
returns let's go back into the
presentation
then of course once we've done it for a
day we could say well hm how about in a
week so here we've um rotated the view
and we have the Horizon of one day then
we could also do the same thing for a
week or we could even project the
different returns to until we reach the
full Horizon of one month as you see the
uncertainty as we go further in time
gets bigger which is why we have a a
bigger uncertainty in the in in the one
month
uh darwinex this is done by taking both
uh historical data and then simulating
thousands of uh possible returns
matching the risk of the strategy and
the style of the strategy so it's done
through what people call Monte
Carlo which takes us to the measure of
risk at at dwix which is value at risk
defined as the percentage of loss in the
worst month every 20 in other words by
looking at the distribution we take the
tail the worst tail look at the worst 5%
probability and for instance a strategy
having a VAR of 15% will lose more we'll
lose 15% or more in a month 5% of the
time which is why we say worst month in
20 the flip side of that is the obiously
that the strategy will make more than
minus 15% 95% of the time or 19 out of
20 months so we look at the tail risk at
the 5% probability in one month that's
how value at risk at that when X is
Define so what drives the risk or the
value at risk and the changes to the
value of risk in a strategy it is
related positively to the frequency of
Trades the more trades you do all other
things being equal the higher your
risk the higher the leverage and the
duration of your individual trades all
other things equal will increase the
value at risk and also market conditions
so the higher the market volatility and
the higher the correlation between the
assets they usually trade the higher the
risk those are the three core
inputs so what do higher values at risk
actually mean well they basically mean
less certainty in outcomes an investor
who were to invest in a high value ad
RIS strategy such as this one could
experience larger deviations as we see
here at the tail than an investor with a
lower bar who would be much more
centered around not making or losing
much which is why we use this to compare
so
how do you compare how do you track the
evolution of risk dwix again we can go
into the interface this is an extract
from the and this you would see in the
darwinia
charts risk
management and here you can see the
evolution of value at risk over time for
this particular strategy what we're
looking for here is that the
fluctuations are ideally as small as
possible for instance this was a bad
fluctuation and we we always track the
minimum risk in the previous period the
max maximum risk in the previous period
and the current risk as extrapolated for
that particular trading
day now you'll also see that we have a
risk Master scale in the leaderboard as
you can see here which has different
colors uh this is just to explain that
the this window shows the fluctuation of
value at risk for the particular
strategy in the recent period in this
case the last year where here is is the
minimum for the period and here is the
maximum so in other words this is
basically looking at transposing what
what we see the minimum and maximum
observations that we see in the previous
chart and that's essentially what you
can see in the leaderboard soe uh
whenever you see that someone has
had uh risk of 9 uh 9.4 maximum bar that
means that in the last period that was
the maximum and 2.2 was the minimum and
the the arrow is pointing at the last
trading day for for the particular
strategy so that's pretty much it if
you're wondering what your value risk is
you can find it out at dwx.com and it's
100% for free uh a lot of people find it
very insightful to understand exactly
how much of the money they're risking
and if you have any questions feedback
or suggestions you can always reach out
to me this is Juan dwx.com and one of
the founders and my Skype is Juan coloa
thank you so much for your time
