WEBVTT
Kind: captions
Language: en
what is cinko how do I put it on a chart
and what do the settings mean I'm Austin
with Quant View and I'm going to show
you just that so I have a blank chart
here we have one minute candlesticks on
it this is an RT chart I'm using rty
because rty has 10 ticks per point and
it's going to make it easier for us to
uh show all the uh Q Rinko settings and
what they all do so how do we get Q
Rinko onto your chart we're going to go
up to the top and we're going to hit
data
Series so data series we're going to
look at type we're going to click the
little down selector box and we're going
to go to the bottom where it says Q
Rinko and I'm going to click on that so
these are the parameters that we can set
to make cinko look different so for our
purposes we're going to put in 10 for
shift we're going to put in 20 for
offset and we're going to put in 40 for
range now I don't use these settings to
trade with I'm just using these to make
it easier to show what all of the
different settings do for Q Rinko so
what do they mean so first let's go back
to the data series here we have shift
and we put in tin for shift so what is
shift sh uh shift for a downtrend I'm
going to pull up the measurement tool
here for downtrend shift is the
measurement from the bottom of a bar to
the bottom of the next bar and this is a
downtrend so we have 10 ticks between
the bottom of this bar to the bottom of
that bar that is your shift well what
about an uptrend so for an uptrend we
measure from the top of a bar to the top
of the next bar and there is another 10
ticks so that is our tick shift so the
next the next parameter that we have
here wrong window the next parameter
that we have is offset and we put in 20
so what is offset offset let's pull up
my measurement tool here again offset is
the measurement from the bottom of a
Down bar to the top of the next one and
this is 20 ticks that is what we put in
so what about an uptrend uptrend we
measure from the top of a bar to the
bottom of the next bar and that again is
20 ticks
so let's go back to our data series and
our last value here our range or our our
reversal range pull up the measurement
tool again for a reversal to the upside
we'll be measuring from the bottom of
the Red Bar to the top of the green bar
remember we put in 40 ticks so that's
where we get the
40 pull up the measurement tool again
and this time we'll do a reversal to the
downside so we will measure from the top
of the green bar to the bottom of the
red bar and again there's our 40 ticks
now reversal bars also show tails and
the only reason that they show the Tails
is that they want to show where the
price actually moved before it closed
this bar so we can see that it got a
little bit above the the top of this
green bar but it didn't make all the way
to the shift range or there are shift
settings so it didn't print that bar
instead It reversed and went down and
hit the bottom of the the range so it
printed us a red
bar so what settings do I use to trade
typically um for M andq and we'll switch
to an M
andq chart here let's go ahead and do
that so I'm going to go down to micros
and then I'm going to go to
[Music]
mnq and then for M and Q let's pop in
some new values so for shift I typically
use as a baseline seven or offset I use
11 and for uh range I use
33 so this will give you a pretty decent
Q Rinko bar for m andq uh it's it's kind
of the Baseline it's not really fast and
it's not really slow it gives you some
nice ranges to work with um now for my
algorithms my automated trading I
typically don't use
71133 I use a um I have a lot of um a
lot of performance really good
performance with 10 10 and 30 or 35
depending on which one you're using so
this kind of it really just shows the
big trends it doesn't it kind of shows
the consolidation all in one spot it
doesn't give you some big runs in there
it makes it easier for you to figure out
where it's going and how it's how it's
going to react um so I will use this
whenever I don't want to deal with chop
this is a good way to do that um my
algorithms work very well with this
setting uh for a faster setting for my
faster algorithms I will use a setting
of three or and seven and then 14 now
this is going to move very fast now the
consolidation you can see that it shows
a lot more movement in there um when
we're using other Quant view indicators
uh that's going to make it easier for us
to get the really the micr trins
something very quick we're quick in and
out uh so that's pretty much the Q
ringco Bar type uh I will pop in some of
the uh the default or Baseline values
that I use for a few tickers I'll put
that into the ninja trading channel in
the uh the pro the pro area on the
Discord server if you are not a member
of Quant view you want to head over to
the Quant view. website and you want to
sign up for this 7-Day trial you get to
use all of the Quant View
uh indicators and strategies for 7 days
free of charge we'll hope to see you
there thanks
