WEBVTT
Kind: captions
Language: en
[Music]
well here we are right at the very
beginning this is a uh a long road this
is probably one of the uh best textbooks
underlying this course which is the hall
book it's the standard uh for options uh
uh Futures and other derivatives in any
course at either the upper upper level
undergraduate courses in finance or at
the MBA level so it is uh at times
challenging uh however uh here's a
here's a promise to you that if you can
get through this um it elevates you
above all others who can't in in this
field it is the standard so I'm going to
try to get you through each chapter uh
in a little bit uh not such a a hard
academic way but with uh a huge amount
of real world experience with Futures
options and derivatives that I can bring
a um perhaps a a better insight into
some of the topics so here we go we're
just going to jump right into uh the
first
chapter uh and start uh as if you'd
never seen these before so derivatives
what are they well they are at the very
heart financial
instruments uh whose Val value depends
on or I put in Brackets here is derived
from and you'll notice derived is the
root of derivatives and that's how we
get the word derivative because its
value is derived from the value of some
other and this is a critical word a lot
of other definitions sort of skip this
but this is critical some other more
basic underlying variable so let's deal
with the more basic this means that
whatever the financial instrument is
deriving its value
from that particular asset has a price
that's closer to the value of it
itself so for instance if uh uh you have
an option on a stock the option derives
its value from the price of the stock
but the price of the stock derives its
value from the value of of the company
itself it's next in line in other words
so it's not that uh it deres its value
off of something more complex or more
higher order like a like a second order
derivative you can't go the other
way and it says it deres the value of
some other more basic underlying
variable now why didn't I put underlying
asset why am I putting underlying
variable there well it's because it
doesn't necessarily have to be an asset
uh it could be a real
asset uh like
property
it could be a financial asset and a
financial asset could be a share of
stock it could be an
index whether it be a stock index a
housing price index the rate of
inflation the index that track rate of
inflation could be an index it could
even be just an
event it could be just an event uh for
instance uh the the amount of snowfall
in a given region perhaps a ski resort
wants to hedge against a bad winter and
maybe there's an option for the uh uh a
bet that they can make a derivative
available that bets on the amount of of
snowfall that pays off if it's under a
certain amount and doesn't if it's over
a certain amount we can all think of
catastrophe bonds or what are called cat
bonds uh that cat bonds will pay off
except in the event of a catastrophe uh
so if a cat catastrophe happens then
obviously it doesn't so that's why it's
called an under Ling variable as opposed
to an underlying asset because the
underlying doesn't necessarily need to
be an asset an event is not an asset so
let's very be very clear about the
definition of a derivative to be
inclusive it is derived from the value
of some other more basic underlying
variable now derivatives can be exchange
traded or over-the-counter exchange
traded are standardized contracts OTC
can be standardized but they allow for a
lot of customization that can't be found
on
exchanges uh on exchange traded a buyer
and a seller uh come together to form a
contract we'll see later on that all
derivatives require a buyer and a seller
and they they uh enter their contract
through a clearing house so that the
Clearing House is the counterparty to
all contracts the buyer enters into a
contract with the Clearing House and the
seller enters into a contract with the
Clearing House it eliminates
counterparty risk if the buyer wins and
the seller can't pay well that's a big
problem but the Clearing House is
counterparty to all and there's never
been a default on an exchange traded
derivative
never highly regulated highly regulated
because they're exchange traded which
means they're available to people
anybody can can uh make a transaction in
a Futures Contract or an options
contract so a lot of Regulation there to
protect the investors on
OTC uh uh they can the transaction is
between a buyer and a seller this is
called bilateral clearing but as we can
see here if the buyer wins big and the
seller loses if the seller is unable to
pay the buyer hasn't really won anything
have they in other words they're in a
position as if they had never entered
into the contract to begin with which
well what was the point of that or and
this is really becoming more and more
popular now ever since uh 2008 2009 that
really changed a lot of opinions about
about this wild wild West over the
counter derivative trading now the buyer
and seller can opt to clear through a
central party a central counterparty
which means that they can eliminate
counterparty Risk by opting to choose a
central counterparty not only that a lot
of Regulation is pushing this
Marketplace to say look if it can be
cleared by a central counterparty do it
the more standardized or the less
customized the OTC contract is the more
this becomes necessary and not just uh
optional but slowly and slowly it's
moving towards more and more of these of
these OTC derivatives being being
cleared through a central counterparty
so that it reduces this kind of
counterparty
risk the OTC market is less regulated
I'm not going to say there's no
regulation This is highly regulated
Exchange Trade is highly regulated OTC
is just less regulated not as highly
regulated it's less regulated but this
regulation is increasing will it ever
get to the level of of the exchange
traded probably not because you don't
want to constrain the ability for
customization here and these are these
are intelligent people these are
institutions that are trading they're
not they're not retail Traders they're
institutions so they know what they're
doing they don't need that kind of
protection they need
flexibility uh they have the
responsibility uh uh to deal with that
flexibility so let them go right so it's
less regulated regulation is increasing
but it'll never get to the point where
it's as regulated as an
exchange dollar value-wise uh the
over-the-counter Market is roughly about
12 times larger than the exchange traded
market in terms of the principal dollars
underlying the assets that's all it is
in terms of the principal dollars
underlying the assets if we look at the
value of the contracts
itself um the exchange traded actually
is larger if we look at just the value
the market value of the financial uh
remember these are financial instruments
so if we had to settle up everything
just the dollar value of them uh The
Exchange Trade It is larger but the
dollars underlying the Assets in the
over-the-counter Market are about 12
times larger but keep in mind these are
institutional Traders they may uh one
contract may represent one $0000 million
whereas on an exchang traded uh uh uh
Marketplace uh a I think the largest uh
Forex contract I've seen is for if you
get into the Swedish and the Norwegian
Crona uh they can amount to depending on
the exchange rate up to 200 uh 250
300,000 uh us uh that's considered a
large contract the standard contract in
most foreign currency on the Futures
Market is about uh $100,000 the British
pound of 625 so they vary but they're
nowhere near 100 million well one
contract here could represent 100
million so when we say that it's much
much much larger uh it's in terms of the
the principal value of the underlying
assets not the value of the derivative
contract itself in uh in this
introduction I'm just going to introduce
some of the terminology that we'll be
looking at in more detail later on but
we'll start with forwards or forward
agreements and it is an AG agement to
buy or
sell to buy or sell a specific asset
often referred to as the underlying
asset at a specific price and since
we're talking about forwards we're
talking about a delivery price when we
talk about options we talk about an
exercise price but this would be a
delivery price at a specific price at a
certain future date T and we tend to
call this the delivery date when we uh
look at options we'll call that the
exercise date or the expiration date but
this will be the delivery date so it's
an agreement to buy or sell a specific
asset at a specific price agreed on
today agreed on at the time that we
enter into the contract but to be
delivered at some future date so we'll
agree on the asset and the future date
at which we'll we'll trade it but we'll
agree on a price today it's called a
forward contract they're OTC traded over
the- counter traded if the forward is
exchange traded it is simply called a
future that's just the difference
between forwards and Futures when you
hear the term forward that means it's
OTC traded when you hear the term
Futures it's a forward agreement that
just happens to be exchange traded
that's all a buyer has a long position a
seller has a short position you need a
buyer and a seller to every derivative
contract there has to be a long and a
short simple as that both parties are
obligated to perform this is key both
are
obligated obligated both have an
obligation when we look at options we'll
see that that's not true in options but
for forwards and Futures both parties to
the contract buyer and seller are
obligated to do something there is no
cost to enter a forward or future
agreement other than paying the
commission on the exchange or paying any
kind of commission on a Futures exchange
however there will be margin but the
margin doesn't leave your account the
key Point here is that no money trades
hands when the contract is entered I
don't have to if I'm the buyer I don't
have to pay the seller anything today I
may have to segregate a certain amount
of my money as margin but I don't have
to part with it so that's important
let's look at some payoff graphs you're
going to have to get used to these if
you don't like payoff graphs stop now
stop now because there's a lot of these
uh throughout the uh throughout all the
the textbook well here's what we need
some terminy ology s subt is the spot
price at time t a spot price means a
spot Market the price in a spot market
and a spot Market is what you can buy
and sell it for right then and there at
that point in time right now that's
called a spot market so you can think of
a stock market as a spot Market at any
point what's the What's 100 shares of
IBM trading at I want to buy it right
now go ahead well that's the spot price
that's the spot
market and K is the delivery price K
will be the specific price that uh uh
that the parties agree to the certain
future date will be at time T sometime
in the future so let's look at uh an
example an agreement to buy or sell an
asset for $100 in 3 months so T is 3
months K is is is 100 so we can put K
down here representing the buyer and the
seller both are obligated to perform
something at that $100 Mark so there is
K in terms of the buyer and here is K in
terms of the seller we'll put buyer up
here and we'll put seller down here to
show their payoff
charts well let's uh look at two
examples here let's say that uh uh in
example one if the spot price uh equals
$150 at time
T the
buyer makes
$50 how do I arrive at that
because uh they've agreed to trade it in
3 months at 100 so the seller must sell
to the buyer for 100 in 3 months time
the spot price is 150 it doesn't matter
there's an agreement to trade at the
price of $100 so they trade at
$100 the buyer can immediately sell in
the spot Market
at150 thereby making $50 so we can see
that the buyer would make $50 at time T
however the seller would have to has to
deliver the asset to the buyer so the
seller would have to go into the spot
Market pay $150 for it and then sell it
for $100 the seller would lose
$50 well if the spot Market uh the spot
price at uh time T is
$75 the
buyer loses
$25 don't they because they still must
perform they're obligated to buy it for
$100 they sell it they're going to lose
$25 whereas the seller will make the
$25 so we can see very very quickly here
that this is a zero sum zero sum because
for the buyer to make a dollar the
seller must lose a dollar
no wealth is created in a derivatives
contract let's be clear about that now
no wealth is created only
transferred so for the buyer to win the
seller must
lose for the seller to win the buyer
must lose and if we draw our
charts we can see that they are
asymmetrical in terms of payoff dollar
for dollar so that if you add these two
together you will get a straight line so
we have a gain here with a loss here it
Nets to zero and if you draw them out
together you will get a straight line
showing no wealth creation only wealth
transfer this is an important point to
remember for a buyer to win the seller
must lose for a seller to win the buyer
must lose the sum of their gains and
losses always sum to zero it is a zero
sum and that's what a payoff graph looks
like so we can see where the payoff is
each time when we get into options keep
in mind here there was no cost to enter
so basically the payoff is is a linear
relationship with the price of the
underlying asset with the spot price
once we have options there is a cost to
enter these payoff graphs change there's
forwards Futures nice introduction we're
going to get into it in a lot more this
is just something something to introduce
you to
it
