WEBVTT
Kind: captions
Language: en
okay let's have a look at options now
options there are two types there's
calls and there's puts and for each of
these you need a buyer and a seller to
form one call option requires one buyer
one seller to form one put requires one
buyer one seller now unlike forwards and
futures were both the buyer and the
seller end up with an obligation in
options because of the word think of the
word you have an option
well the option gives the buyer the
right but not the obligation they have
the option to do something if they want
the buyer has the right if it's a call
the buyer has a right to buy if it's a
put the buyer has a right to sell well
if the buyer has a right that means the
seller has an obligation the buyer has a
right to buy the seller is obliged to
sell if the buyer has a right to sell
the seller is obliged to buy what a
specific asset this is called the
underlying asset the underlying asset at
a specific price this is called the
strike or exercise price notice it's not
called the delivery price it could also
be called the delivery price but the
term strike price and exercise price
take on meaning when we're talking about
options but not so much about futures
and forwards by a specific date and
rather than call the delivery date we
call it the expiration date the
expiration date so there we are options
can be American style or European style
we'll talk more about these later this
is just to introduce you to some
terminology and there's a common
misconception about them so let me clear
them up now American style options means
they can be exercised at any time during
the life of the option for a European
style we're talking about last day
exercise only most exchange traded
option
our american-style any time exercise I
didn't say all now most most OTC options
are typically european-style last day
exercise only and a lot of embedded
options when we start looking at bond
contracts some some of them carry
embedded options calls and puts
typically tend to be european-style and
even one step further something called a
Bermuda style which means there's
multiple exercise dates but can only be
exercised on those dates here's the
misconception between American style and
European style that a lot of beginners
don't quite pick up on the the style
pertains to exercise not trading
European style options have only one
exercise date American style exercise
any time but they are both any time
training just because you have a
European option doesn't mean you can't
trade it it just means you can't
exercise it until the last day but you
can trade it at any time so some people
get confused thing I don't want a
European option because what if I have
to get out well you can just you can't
exercise you can get out it's any time
trading unlike forwards though with
options money does change hands when the
contract is entered into that is called
a premium options cost money they're not
free to enter into they cost money the
premium changes hands a buyer pays the
seller you're buying a call you pay the
seller you're buying a put you pay the
seller so let's have a look at how the
payoff charts change when we're talking
about options the buyer if it's a call
buyer let's work with a call and and
puts adjust the opposite the call buyer
pays X to enter into the contract B call
seller receives X
so the buyer pays the seller the premium
and it's ex so let's say that the buyer
is out ex there's ex right there the
buyer we'll start here at negative x
that's their profit on day one is
negative x because they paid for
something that will either be worth
something in the future or worth nothing
the seller on the other hand starts with
X so they're on day one is their profit
and let's put our strike price in at K
now this is a call which gives the buyer
the right to call away from the seller
some asset at this price so clearly if
the price is below it's not in any
interest at all for the caller to pay X
K for something that's worth less so if
we follow the profit through on this one
the all the way up to the strike price
the call buyer will lose negative x so
if on expiration date let's say that K
is a hundred and the asset is $99.99 the
call buyer loses all the premium because
now the premiums worth noting on
expiration date and it has no value
whatsoever because it's not worth called
paying something paying a hundred for
something that you can sell in the
market for $99.99 even a hundred a
hundred is only fair money which means
that the seller makes the entire premium
up to that point now for every move
above K the call buyer will experience a
linear relationship with the price of
the asset the seller will realize a
the asset but in the opposite direction
the point of breakeven here is the
strike price plus the premium paid so if
the call buyer paid three dollars for an
option and K is a high
as soon as the price gets to 103 the
call buyer breaks even the seller breaks
even after that the buyer experiences
gains the seller experienced losses but
this is important here for the call
buyer no matter how far down the price
the linear relationship with the with
the underlying asset goes the call buyer
has a limited loss it has a limited loss
it can only lose ax dollars because if
the price drops to zero which you know
it may not happen but let's just say
theoretically it could go to zero X is
the most that the call buyer can lose
however once breakeven is passed and the
price of the stock continues to go up X
called the call buyer can experience
unlimited game unlimited game limited
loss with unlimited game that's a nice
asymmetrical payoff your downside is
limited your upside is unlimited but
flip it around
remember this is zero-sum right look at
the call seller no matter how far down
the price of the stock falls the seller
can only make so much money the seller
has a limited gain and the gain is
limited to the premium however as the
price of the underlying continues to go
up the seller continues to lose and lose
and lose which means the seller is
facing unlimited loss that's a terrible
payoff to enter into bets that if you
win you only win small if you lose you
can lose big so that's an asymmetrical
payoff for the seller yet there are
times where combining calls and puts or
combining several puts together
completely changes these payoffs this is
just for holding a straight call this is
for selling for being short a a a call
and that's all that payoff is the
options payoff charts can get very very
complicated so you're going to
learn how to do these quickly we'll
revisit options in a lot more detail
once we get to chapters 10 and 11 we'll
look more deeply into those maybe maybe
more than you want to we're gonna close
out this chapter with a brief and I mean
brief discussion of the types of traders
we're going to encounter throughout this
textbook we're going to use lots of
examples of the different financial
instruments that we talked about and
we're going to look at them in terms of
how three groups of traders use them
hedgers speculators and arbitrage so
just so you have a handle on what that
all means hedgers use derivatives to
reduce or eliminate risk that's what
they're trying to do just reduce or
eliminate risk by locking in a price
speculators on the other hand are taking
on risk they're trying to make a price
bet so they're trying to profit from
some kind of directional bet whether
prices will go up or prices will go down
now when they take on risk one of the
things you're going to see is that with
derivatives it's not just straight risk
the risk can be engineered in other
words they can take on a little bit of
risk a little bit more risk a lot of
risk a lot of risk - a little bit they
can engineer the level of risk they're
comfortable with it's not as if it's a
one shot you got to take the whole risk
profile or not it can be engineered risk
can be taken on and then reduced or
raised to the level that they're
comfortable with speculators can even
make a bet
make a price bet on no direction it
doesn't have to be directional it can be
non directional to make absolutely no a
bet on absolutely no direction so we're
gonna see how that's done a lot of this
is done with options and then we have
arbitrage arbitrage is a riskless profit
it takes advantage of mispriced assets
either across time so we could look at a
spot price today versus a forward price
and if there's a mispricing given the
interest rate there may be a trade that
in a riskless profit or it could be
across a time or place so an asset could
be selling in London let's say gold
could be selling in London for 1210 us
and gold could be selling in the u.s.
for 1200 so it makes sense to buy gold
in the u.s. and sell it in the in London
until the price tends to converge we're
riskless profit disappear so we're gonna
see hedging examples we're going to see
speculating examples and we're going to
see arbitrage examples in all of the
assets that we all owe the financial
securities that we talk about throughout
this course there's a wrap up of chapter
1 I'll see you in chapter 2
