WEBVTT
Kind: captions
Language: en
question 1 3 what is the difference
between entering into a long forward
contract when the forward price is $50
and taking a long position in a call
option with a strike price of $50 so
there are two big differences and we can
combine them into one chart here the
when we when a buyer and the seller
enter into a forward contract both are
obligated so both have a commitment to
do something however no money changes
hands so the buyer as the price of the
underlying asset goes up the payoff for
the buyer continues to increase
so there's unlimited gains if the price
drops there are unlimited losses while
theoretically because it's bounded below
by 0 but there are unlimited losses the
losses don't stop the other thing I want
to point out about the forward contract
is the payoff is the profit we don't
have to change the shape of the curve at
all to account for the profit we don't
have to shift it in any direction simply
because no money changed hands a buyer
and a seller enter into a forward
contract no money changes hands so your
payoff and your profit are exactly the
same and it's a linear combination or a
linear relationship to the price of the
underlying for an option the buyer has a
right the seller has an obligation so we
have a contingent contract not
necessarily a commitment so if the price
of the asset were under $50 the buyer of
the call option wouldn't exercise the
payoff would be zero and that would be
the same for the seller the payoff would
be zero so we have a limited loss for
the caller for the caller for the buyer
of the call and then after that the
payoff is identical to the payoff had he
entered into a forward contract so he
gets the same payoff as the forward on
the upside with limited downside saying
my payoff could be zero or some
think positive the difference with the
option that we don't have with the
forward is that the payoff line and the
profit line are different the profit
line gets shifted downwards by the
amount of the call so the buyer had to
pay the cell or something that's the
premium which is will denote as seen on
so if it's not exercised while the
payoff of the contract is zero the
profit of the contract is negative up to
the $50 point and then it starts to
climb until it hits a break-even point
and the break-even point is the exercise
price plus whatever the premium is so if
I can exercise at 50 I don't actually
make a profit until I cover my cost of
acquiring that contract so my profit
will be lower under the call option than
it would be under the forward however I
have a limited loss versus an unlimited
loss here so about $50 the forward is
more profitable so if the price ends
above 50 I wish I were in the forward if
you look over here below $50 - the
premium - the premium on the call the
option loses less because if we extend
the forward contract down at this point
here where the loss is identical for the
forward and for the option this distance
in here is the call premium so below 50
minus C naught we wish we were in the
call option above $50 we wish we were in
the forward contract question one five
an investor enters into a short forward
contract to sell 100,000 British pounds
for u.s. dollars at an exchange rate of
1.5 zero zero zero dollars per pound how
much does the investor gain or lose if
the exchange rate at the end of the
contract is a 149 and be 150 - so the
investor entered into a short forward
contract so the investor is short and
the quote were given
1.50 if we're looking at it in terms of
a currency quote it would be written
like this and currencies are always
quoted in pairs with the first pair
being a one so one British Pound buys
150 US dollars and so that's how we read
all currency quotes so when I see 1.50 I
want to put it in a term that I can
understand one British Pound buys a
dollar fifty u.s. dollars now when we're
trading currencies and here we're really
just trying to figure out the gain or
loss but we need to be specific the
question says how much does the investor
gain or lose if the exchange rate at the
end of the contract is 149 and 152 you
cannot just give me a number you must
give me a number in the proper currency
if this currency changes am I going to
gain or lose US dollars or my ganna gain
or lose British pounds it matters the
order of the currency matters so we're
looking at the the pound the Sterling
dollar here the payoff whenever you
trade this this particular spot rate or
any contract where it's quoted this way
the payoff will always be in the
currency of the second pair so the
payoff is going to be in u.s. dollars so
as the rate goes from 150 to 149 I can
calculate the quantity in terms of a
number but the currency will always be
in US dollars if on the other hand it
were quoted the other way around as USD
if we had written it this way and
whatever this rate happens to be if it's
a dollar 50 this would be point six six
six seven and we traded the currency in
reverse the payoff would be in British
pounds it wouldn't be in US dollars
would be in British pounds just
something you want to know about how it
actually works in the real world you
have to be careful about when you're
asked how much money would you make you
can't just quote it in one currency you
have to quote it in the correct currency
in this case we would be making US
dollars so
let's go we have we started at 150 - 149
that is the direction that we want to go
is point zero one zero zero the
difference between the two is point zero
one zero zero times $100,000 because it
dropped 100 pips this is one penny the
first to mean there a penny the other
two decimal places these are called pips
and there are 100 pips in a penny so we
have a change of 100 pips times 100
thousand dollars if you multiply that
out it is one thousand US dollars if the
gain or losses and in pounds now because
it's in dollars right B asks us whatever
150 - well 150 - 150 - is negative zero
point zero to negative 200 pips times
100,000 you would lose two thousand
dollars a trader enters into a short
cotton futures contract when the futures
price is 50 cents per pound the contract
is for delivery of 50 thousand pounds
how much does the trader gain or lose of
the cotton price at the end of the
contract is forty eight point two perp
and and fifty one point three perp ound
well that's easy enough we would solve
it the same way we solved the previous
question we are short at fifty and minus
forty eight point two cents per pound
will give us one point eight cents the
contract is for fifty thousand pounds so
if we multiply fifty thousand times one
point eight we will get ninety thousand
but this is cents now these are all in
pennies so if we divide that by 100 we
will get nine hundred dollars
most contracts for AG products when I
say egg corn wheat soybean live cattle
hogs these are typically always quoted
in pennies so when we
she quote on corn for instance and you
see that corn is being quoted at 392 and
1/8
that's not $392 and 1/8 of a dollar
that's 392 pennies per bushel so it
would be three dollars and 92 cents per
bushel same with soybean soybean might
be quoted as 10 75 that's not a thousand
75 that's ten dollars and 75 per bushel
so just be aware that we don't put point
five oh and point four eight two in
front of this it is quoted full as full
pennies and then you just have to make
the conversion at the end of turn it
into dollars so our second one we were
short at 50 cents - 51 point three zero
gives us negative one point three
pennies it doesn't sound like a lot
pennies negative one point three pennies
but we got to do that 50 thousand times
so we're we've lost sixty five thousand
pennies of course divided by our hundred
pennies to get a dollar means we have
lost six hundred and fifty dollars so on
these contracts especially when the
underlying is a huge quantity pennies
pennies can add up to significant
dollars 116 a trader writes a December
put option with a strike price of $30
the price of the option is four dollars
under what circumstances does the trader
make a gain so I've written we have to
be very clear what I've done here I've
written a put option and I get that
means I get four dollars I'm the writer
of it so I get four dollars it's got a
strike price of $30 so the first thing I
want to do is I want to draw my chart
here so I'm gonna put a point right here
and this is four dollars I get to keep
that for at all or so as long as the
prices above thirty bucks I get to keep
that four dollars as the price of the
underlying and I'll put the price here
the notation here to show you what it is
as the price of the underlying starts to
drop this is what happens to the put
contract so there we go I'm in a better
position now to answer this question
under what
circumstances does the trader make a
game well $30 under below 30 I start
losing but I got $4 for doing that so it
could fall all the way down to $26 and
that would be my break-even point so
that's the first thing I want to know my
break-even point will be $30 minus 4
equals 26 so I will make a gain on any
on any finish of the underlying greater
than $26 I will make a game
you
