WEBVTT
Kind: captions
Language: en
trading crypto in a five-step process
I'm going to go through that in this
video here it is so we actually start
with our exit strategy first and then
lastly get to our potential entries I'm
going to show you exactly how to come up
with trade ideas how to think about how
crypto moves because crypto is not Forex
it's not stocks it's very very different
we have distinct Cycles here we can
trade that I'm going to go through all
of that in this video including you know
how to think about where is the
performance coming how to do that
research so we're going to go through
that in this video I'll leave time
stamps for all of this down below in the
description as well this is the process
of each and every trade whether you're
looking to day trade any time period if
you're looking to trade over a few days
weeks months this is the process of that
trade so you have specific timelines and
prices that you're willing to trade at
if you don't have that if you're chasing
narratives and chasing prices you're
already on the wrong side of the trade
so you have to come up with this plan
and think ahead implement this plan
and then along the way see is it working
out or not and that gives you a distinct
risk reward ratio that you can go ahead
with so we actually start with the end
which is the exit right so what is the
Catalyst for this trade what is the
thing that is going to repic this asset
there must be a reason why you're doing
this so we're going to start with that
then we go through the potential of the
trade in terms of what is the risk
reward what is the potential ual percent
move that we're going to get if we can
work that out then we can work out if
it's worth our time and our capital in
that we do some analysis of the trade in
terms of you know looking at actual
fundamental analysis price analysis news
flows and everything like that because
we need to know when these things
potentially might happen then we look at
the time Horizon for the trade right so
entry to exit how long is that going to
be how long is our money going to get
tied up then we actually go into the
specifics looking at some technical
analysis looking our entries looking at
where we play stop losses if we want
them how much risk that we're taking so
this is the process that we're going to
go through let's start with trade
Catalyst then which is the thing that is
going to move the price right so we're
in at a current price the market is
mispricing this there's something
happening in the future that is
currently mispriced and the price of
this asset is going to move to price in
this thing in the future always thinking
about the future what is getting priced
in what does the market Market think now
what is happening in the future that is
going to change the price as people
trade shortterm so we're trying to trade
around what other people are doing
remember investing and trading are not
the same they're completely different
when trading what we really doing is
trading the flow of money through the
markets so we're trading news flow
attention the way that things move and
Traders get pushed and pulled out into
these different narratives this is is
not investing investing is just saying
what are these big asset classes that I
want to save my money in over time right
I'm not worrying about this we're
trading and so we're trading attention
and flow that's what we're doing and so
we need to know what are the things that
are going to change the attention and
the and the the uh the marginal flow of
funds into which asset so that's it
another tip here is maybe you don't want
to spread yourself too thin maybe a
couple of assets to trade like this is
enough in terms of the amount of money
that you have and the amount of
attention that you have to give to these
trades so when looking around which ones
are going to give you the best bang for
your buck so let's look at potential
trade catalysts firstly with BTC what a
potential trade Catalyst we have an ETF
coming up it's obviously a major
Catalyst rates are going lower which is
a major Catalyst as of making this video
but of course each time Horizon is going
to be different so you know if we're
going into to a bare Market things are
going to be different but the Catalyst
right now is of making this video and we
have a harving let's look at this some
simple research shows you this Wall
Street is now forecasting uh calling
inflation potential Cuts coming in early
2024 that's bullish for risk assets we
also have the Bitcoin harving coming up
this is the Bitcoin harving by the way
all resources and everything I show you
in this video I'll link it all in the
description below so you can see this
for yourself uh as you can see what
usually happens with Bitcoin is you get
a draw down you get a recovery this is
the current cycle we're in the recovery
then you get a Bitcoin harving and a
massive expansion so that's a catalyst a
catalyst for the Bitcoin harving right
here this is the Bitcoin price and as
you can see we're moving out we have the
harving right here which is usually
where we get a upswing in price so that
is the Catalyst and that can play out
over a Time Horizon which we'll get on
to later as a a potential for another
asset if you want to trade altcoins you
know potential uh air drops and uh kind
of airdrop Seasons right so potential
for salana here this is the salana price
coming out of a bare Market a big rise
why because there's a big aird drop
season right you can see goo margin fire
Camino these are all doing aird drops so
they're creating tokens and giving them
out to people for free this is a major
incentive they need people coming to
their change to use it so they're
creating tokens and giving them out as
an incentive this is a catalyst for
attention and flow into this asset that
we can trade for another asset like
kadano what do you have here you have to
look for catalysts that improve
attention in that thing so there are
many daps launching on kadano you have a
potential stable coin here that's
launching around the next few months you
have a um you know an exchange here that
is you know quite new in the way it does
things that's a catalyst launching in
the next few months Catalyst for
attention and money flowing in then we
have other types of things as a more
experienced Trader that you might look
at for example the way that we trade
will Bitcoin outperform ethereum or will
ethereum outperform Bitcoin so as an
example here you know Bitcoin has an ETF
coming up ethereum has the ETF later so
over this next 3 months which one has
more of outperforming the other asset
cuz if you're buying Bitcoin what you're
saying is over this 3mon period Bitcoin
will outperform the dollar or your fiat
currency because you're selling your
Fiat into this asset you think Bitcoin
is going to outperform your fiat
currency you can also say the same
amongst cryptos will Bitcoin outperform
eth over these three months will salana
outperform eth over these three six
months then you can make that trade so
what you can do here is use um Futures
to trade like this now what you can
simply do is if you have these two
assets you can just sell one of them to
buy the other and then switch back if
you want to do that another way of doing
things a little bit more professionally
is to use something like Futures where
you can actually use one of the assets
to collateralize a short position in the
other the way that you would do this is
to go to a future trading protocol you
can use centralized exchanges you can
use decentralized exchanges to to take
these positions so what you can do here
is uh actually do an inverse so we're
going to trade that and then we're going
to trade uh BTC like this we're going to
trade eth actually so eth USD eth USD
like this now what you can actually do
is use Bitcoin as collateral to take a
short position in eth what you're doing
is using some collateral in BTC because
you think Bitcoin is going to outperform
eth right so you're using Bitcoin
collateral to take a short position in
eth so what you're doing is essentially
saying Bitcoin will outperform and go up
in value versus eth doesn't matter if
they go both go down in dollar terms or
up in dollar terms you're just playing a
spread between the two assets so that
gets a little bit more complex I'll
leave videos on how to trade Futures uh
in the description below um because it
is more complex so I'll leave it for
those videos but these are the trade
catalysts the trade ideas that you have
to go through knowing the market and
what may happen over a specific time
frame the next thing we need to do is
get a risk reward rating on the trade
this is going to be down to your opinion
as well but it's important to get this
clear in your mind because then we can
allocate funds in certain ways how much
risk are you willing to take where do
you want to go on the risk curve right
if the risk curve is this where do you
want to be on that right in terms of
taking risk and volatility so in terms
of BTC where would you be on a scale of
1 to five for example five being the
most risky most uncertain
this is fairly low risk right because we
know the ETFs are basically coming rates
are coming down the harving is a fixed
event and what happens every single time
after the Haring we know what happens
right because we can see that the
probability of this happening happening
again seems pretty high so let's give
that a rating of kind of like one to two
right in terms of our crypto risk How
likely how volatile is this then going
through to like alt coins as as well
they have more inherent volatility right
they have more uh you know price
volatility now that's Obviously good to
the upside this is salana here big
upside but if you know Bitcoin has a
draw down whatever these are going to be
coming down as well but it's about your
opinion the flows into some risk assets
seem to be fairly strong so you know
what's your opinion here right maybe
looking at 2 to three or 2 to four
something like that dap Launches on
smaller chains do you think this is
going to be more volatile where are the
flows here right you're looking trading
altcoins if you're just taking those POs
positions you're you know you're looking
at something like that right let's do
three to five there outperformance
Bitcoin versus eth you know the the
amount that this is going to move is
definitely not as much right if we look
at Bitcoin uh traded in eth so we're
going to do that right here uh Bitcoin
traded in eth it doesn't move as much in
terms of percentage terms right so we've
had a big move here people are saying
well ether is underperforming Bitcoin at
this part of the cycle you're seeing
that move over the last year ethereum
moved versus Bitcoin around 40% right so
it underperformed Bitcoin by about 40%
now bear in mind Bitcoin has moved 150%
or something like that so this
percentage move between Bitcoin and eth
is far less volatile than the actual
price movements themselves so this one
wouldn't be as risky is taking positions
in stuff like this where you're just
kind of naked going One Direction right
so maybe this is like one to two as well
because the percentage move isn't as
much so now you can determine how much
money you're putting towards these
trades if you want to take all of them
if you don't want to take them right you
can make a kind of a chart of where does
the money go right you want to split
your money up between a lower risk and a
higher risk right maybe 40 60 or
something like that you can choose that
but get the risk reward here how much
they can potentially move in your
opinion based on some technical analysis
as well we'll go through that later on
in the video but you can see the price
moves Here Right salana Moving a huge
amount in the past few months right so
we're getting what a 70% move so that's
double what eth Bitcoin has moved uh in
a shorter period of time so the
volatility of the trade and how risky it
is in terms of what asset you're trading
is important to get that in your head
and then put some money into each of
those trades now you have to go through
with some trade analysis to get some
more concrete timelines and to get this
clear in your head so we'll go through
some examples for these trades Bitcoin
ETF lower rates harving so as we can see
here I'll just go through some specific
examples here Black Rock NASDAQ SEC meet
regarding Bitcoin ETF right so we can
read this we know this is coming and
some research tells us that the uh 10th
of Jan is the date for those ETFs more
or less then we have lower rates we know
we've seen that that U early
2024 was the potential for rate Cuts
around there then we have the Haring and
that's very obvious as well which is
this one here we know that this is
coming around April 2024 we usually get
an expansion here so we can do that
again we say April
2024 so all of this seems to be coming
around the same time rate Cuts Haring
potential ETFs so early 2024 mid 2024
seems to be very very decent we also
know that around that the harving here
around 300 days so about a year you're
getting a big upswing potentially in
price so you're looking for that trade
from making this video 12 months so that
is pretty simple right as a trade
analysis when you're looking at other
assets we have to understand you know
what's going with them I'll just show
you with BTC here you're looking at how
this moves so 2023 year to date you can
see 129 but actually the Haring year
which is next year or 2024 as is making
this video is usually a much higher year
in terms of percentage gains so that
would be for Bitcoin the trade analysis
there obviously you go much deeper than
that but research is telling us that
these are specific points and times next
we get to time Horizon because we need
to know how long we're in these trades
for so very simple
as for Bitcoin harving this follows the
macro cycle and as we can see for
Bitcoin harving you're looking at around
3 to 600 days for a bull market right so
you have a bare Market you have a
recovery out and then around the Haring
and 300 plus days more or less you're
looking at a huge expansion in price
seems to be happening again so you're
looking around 3 to 600 days right 300
to 600 days or something like that for a
potential trade air drop season may be a
bit short in time right so maybe you're
looking at 6 months or something like
this and then our performance here
little bit different because if a
Bitcoin ETF is coming in Jan and we know
that an ethereum ETF may be coming in
let's say may or after that then Bitcoin
may clearly outperform before that but
if an ethereum ETF comes will ethereum
outperform during this time as well so
that could be maybe a lot shorter time
Horizon that time Horizon is important
because you need to know getting in and
out of the trade right when are you
doing that and how long are you happy to
hold that trade for because it's really
about time and not price we don't know
where the price is going to be we cannot
predict that but these events are much
more predictable right the Central Bank
are they easing or drawing money out of
the system and these events are pretty
predictable in their in their timeline
so it's it's trading timelines and flows
and attention not prices now you have a
potential trade idea and the time
Horizon so we know when this is going to
happen now we need to get our entries so
I want to go through some psychology
here as well and understanding crypto
without getting into the weeds with
specific price levels and candlesticks
because I believe that that is missing
the forest for the trees with crypto
crypto is such an expansive asset class
we've seen that these prices can move
100 200 250% right with a move like that
we just need to make sure that if we're
right with our trade idea we are there
for the bulk of that move so the one
thing we need to make sure is that we
don't lose money being right what I mean
by that is if you're using leverage
overleveraging yourself you can see this
was a Bitcoin bull market and in that we
got these big moves down of 30 plus per.
regular draw Downs you can see here if
you're
overleveraged using too much leverage
and you might get stopped out if you're
using you don't have to use leverage but
if you are you know don't don't get
stopped out using too much leverage so
you got wrecked but you were right with
the trade so how do we go about that we
can actually look at this the reason we
get draw Downs in price is because you
get a big expansion people take profits
which takes the price down but also
loads of Leverage is used in crypto
around the world and people trade
Futures and they trade leverage which
means they put $11,000 in the crypto
exchange gives them $110,000 to play
with if they're using 10x leverage a 10%
moves wipes wipes out their ,000 that
they put in to fund that trade that
creates selling which creates more
selling which creates those draw downs
we can see how the market is positioned
so let's have a look at this we just
need to make sure that we are there for
the move and any price movements we can
handle them
okay so this is Bitcoin here a huge
strong move to the upside and we have a
potential resistance level right here
during bull markets you're going to be
breaking through these resistance levels
and getting draw Downs so you can see
recently we got a draw down from this
peak here around let's say 11% if you're
looking to go long great opportunity 11%
is a big big draw down for a short move
you can see these are potential draw
Downs or previous draw Downs that have
happened right so in this bull market
draw Downs have been very small but in
previous bull markets you're looking at
20 30% draw Downs in Bull markets now if
your thesis is long because Haring rate
Cuts then any draw Downs are the
opportunity to get in right if you don't
want to wait for the draw Downs then
you're looking at making small entries
over a period of a few weeks right you
don't have to trade all at once it can
be over this month I want to get this
position it's going to be 5,000 or
10,000 position I'm just going to get an
average price for that month right but
with the potential that we know that
Bitcoin can easily draw down 20% 30% so
we need to make sure that we're happy
with that and if we're using leverage
that doesn't wipe us out how to do that
you can go to coin glass again
everything I mentioned is listed below
this shows you funding rates in crypto
funding rates show us how the market is
positioned now when the market is too
much one way everyone is positioned One
Way guess what happens you get a wipe
out of that open interest because people
are overleveraged one way which means
when the market does pull back so in an
uptrend it pulls back to the downside in
a downside in a in a downtrend it pulls
back to the upside right works both ways
when the market is very frenzied and you
have a lot of money in and it's
overleveraged one way you get the
potential for people to get wiped out of
their trade so people may be making
money they may put a leverage position
in the price goes up they get equity in
their accounts they keep going in and in
and in they're making money and then
eventually bang it all gets wiped out
this happens over and over again in
crypto because this overleveraged money
is actually too much right gets too big
to be funded by the actual cash
positions so this shows us the heat map
of that when you see yellow you're
looking at very high funding rates this
shows us that the market is massively
positioned one way
when you see a lot of yellow the market
is getting way over positioned now in
this case you're seeing positive APS
which means the market is very overp
positioned long you see that here right
you see the yellow this is everyone
going long long long leverage long very
very bullish see these altcoins huge
leverage Longs here you see uh Bitcoin
uh and eth a little bit less but you're
seeing a lot of these altcoins very very
highly leveraged what do you expect to
happen when the market is all one way
and it's highly leveraged there is a
leverage flush and that happened here
you can see funding and leverage got
wiped out that's when Bitcoin had its
11% correction so you have to be ahead
of this so look at coin glass you don't
want to be with the masses right wait
for this wait for everyone to get
overdone and if you have a thesis and a
position for a six-month trade wait for
this wait for the draw down where
everyone gets flushed out and you can
see people are starting to go in again
so you can trade these flows right you
can trade the flows here you can trade
up when things are getting way overdone
you can trade a little bit out of your
position when the flush comes you can go
in again so that's day trading right
trying to trade these flows is you have
a position let's call it 10K $10,000
position when things are getting out
take 20% off the table wait for a flush
put that money back in and then you can
be tactical trade if you want to do that
you don't have to do that that's way
more you know time and effort and you're
going to have to spend a lot of time
looking at things if you don't have that
time then think a little bit longer in
terms of no from here to 6 months I
don't care about these leverage flushes
I just want to over a month make sure
I'm in when we're doing well so when
funding is like this I'm going to be
getting in when funding is like this I'm
not going to be getting in things are
getting way overheated funding back here
another little bit added to my position
that is how you get slightly better TR
trades and tactical um you know better
trades like that right so look at this
funding look how the market is reacting
but remember we get those draw downs but
you just want to get a good entry for
your trade so you can look at technical
analysis you can look at potential you
know where are we are we getting these
draw Downs whenever we get a 5 8 10%
draw down on that their potential is to
get in because your thesis is two months
3 months 6 months out the price is going
to be wildly different so that would be
you know getting into a trade my crypto
has 300 videos like this on getting set
up in crypto if you want to know how to
trade specifics how to use wallets it's
all there check the link down below for
that I'm James this man DG cheers for
watching and I'll see you in the next
one
